[Music]
newlywed couple
wanda and vision move into the town of
westview
during the 1950s despite vision being an
android
and wanda having telekinesis and reality
warping abilities
they attempt to blend in one day they
notice a heart drawn on their calendar
but neither can remember what the
occasion is
while vision goes to his job at
computational services incorporated
wanda believes that the heart represents
their anniversary their neighbor agnes
introduces herself to wanda and helps
her prepare to celebrate that night
vision amazes his co-workers with his
speed but is unsure what his company
actually does
he is reminded that he and wanda are
hosting his boss mr heart
and his wife for dinner that night which
they realize is what the heart
represents
wanda and vision struggle to hide their
abilities while making a last-minute
dinner for the hearts
while interrogating wanda and vision mr
heart chokes on his food
and vision uses his abilities to save
him all of this takes place in the
fictional sitcom
wandavision as the episode ends we see
that someone is watching the show
on a television during the 1960s wanda
and vision hear strange noises outside
their
house they prepare their magic act for a
neighborhood talent show
wanda and agnes spend the day with the
show's planning committee
led by dottie and vision attends a
neighborhood watch meeting
where he accidentally swallows some
chewing gum wanda befriends another
neighbor
geraldine and notices more strange
things a yellow and red toy helicopter
in their black and white world
a voice on the radio that seems to be
speaking to her and a red blood stain
thanks to the gum caught in his internal
mechanisms vision
appears to be intoxicated at the talent
show and publicly reveals his abilities
wanda uses her own abilities to make
this look like simple magic tricks
and fix his vision by removing the gum
they return home
and wanda becomes visibly pregnant when
they see a strange beekeeper emerging
from a manhole on their street
wanda resets their reality to before the
figure appears
the setting then becomes colorful as it
changes to the 1970s
dr nielsen checks on wanda's pregnancy
and says she is four months along
and everything is fine before leaving
for an intended holiday with his wife
while vision sees nielsen out he sees
his neighbor herb
unknowingly cutting through their wall
wanda and vision paint a nursery while
debating what to name their child before
wanda's pregnancy elevates to six months
when she begins contractions her
abilities begin to move things in the
house and eventually shut down the
entire town's power
geraldine arrives and helps one to
deliver twins tommy and bailey
vision catches agnes and her but
gossiping outside they talk about
geraldine who has just arrived in town
and does not have a home or family
inside
wanda interrogates geraldine after
geraldine reveals that she knows
ultron killed wanda's twin brother
pietro
wanda notices that geraldine is wearing
a pendant with a sword emblem on it
when vision returns geraldine is gone
outside of west view
geraldine is cast out from a wall of
static and is surrounded by sword agents
captain monica rambo an agent of sword
returns to life following the blip
to find her mother maria has died of
cancer
three weeks later monica returns to work
and is sent by acting director tyler
hayward
to help fbi agent jimmy wu with a
missing persons case in west view new
jersey
they discover a hexagonal static cmbr
field
surrounding the town which monica is
pulled into
within 24 hours sword establishes a base
around the town
and sends drones and an agent in to
investigate
dr darcy lewis is asked to study the
phenomena and discovers broadcast
signals for the sitcom wandavision
they used the show to observe events
inside the town
learn that the real residents have been
cast as characters in the sitcom
and see monica disguise herself as
geraldine darcy and jimmy
unsuccessfully attempt to use the radio
to contact wanda
when monica mentions ultron wanda casts
her out of the town
the sitcom illusion disappears and wanda
sees vision appear as he did when he
died
horrified she restores the illusion
in the 1980s setting wanda and vision
struggled to stop
tommy and billy from crying agnes offers
to help look after the boys
but vision questions her behavior he and
wanda are interrupted when tommy and
billy suddenly age up to five years old
when a dog appears at their house the
boys ask to keep it and agnes suggests
the name sparky
wanda almost reveals her abilities to
agnes concerning vision
while the boys age up again to 10 years
old at work
vision reads an email from sword that
reveals the situation in west view
he breaks through to a real west view
resident and learns that wanda is
seemingly controlling the town
sword sends a drone from the 1980s into
west view
which causes sparky to run off hayward
orders the drone to be used to kill
wanda
but she emerges from the static field
with the drone and warns hayward
to leave her alone agnes finds sparky
dead
vision confronts wanda about her actions
but they are interrupted when pietro
arrives
watching the broadcast darcy notes that
pietro has been
recast in a late 1990s
early 2000s setting wanda wants to spend
tommy and billy's first halloween
together as a family
but vision tells her that he is going to
patrol the streets with the neighborhood
watch
pietro offers to step in as a father
figure and takes the boys
trick-or-treating
causing mischief with his super speed
which tommy is revealed to have
inherited
meanwhile vision explores further away
from their house and finds residents of
west view standing frozen
in their positions including agnes
vision speaks to agnes's real self and
she tells him that he is dead
outside westview hayward orders monica
darcy and jimmy
to leave the base for disagreeing with
his decision to attack wanda
but they sneak back inside they hack
into his computer and discover that he
has been tracking vision's vibranium
signature
vision tries to push through the static
wall but he begins to disintegrate
billy senses this and tells wanda who
expands the hexagonal static wall
vision darcy and several sword agents
are enveloped by the new boundary
in a mid to late 2000s setting wanda
decides to have a date to herself and
agnes agrees to babysit tommy and billy
wanda sees various parts of her house
constantly changing and is unable to
control them
vision wakes up to find the sword agents
inside the boundary are now members of a
circus
he releases darcy from the spell and she
tells vision about his death and the
events that led to the current situation
outside of west view monica and jimmy
meet with loyal sword personnel and
obtain a vehicle that should be able to
cross the barrier
when this is unsuccessful monika decides
to enter herself
she passes through the static wall and
emerges with seemingly heightened vision
when monica confronts wanda agnes tells
monica to leave and takes wanda to her
house
wanda looks for the boys in the basement
and discovers a strange lair
agatha introduces herself as a witch
named agatha harkness
and reveals that she has been
interfering with wanda including by
sending the pietro
imposter and killing sparky in salem in
a coven of witches led by her mother
evanora
attempt to kill agatha for practicing
dark magic but she drains their life
forces
in the present agatha demands to know
how wanda is controlling westview
and forces her to relive key moments of
her life agatha learns that wanda has
had magical abilities since she was a
child
which were later amplified by the mind
stone and that she has always enjoyed
watching various sitcoms
after the blip wanda visited sword to
recover vision's body
but hayward refused to let her bury him
unable to feel any life in vision
she drove to a lot in westview that he
had bought for her before his death
so they could live there together in a
fit of grief she manifested a house on
the lot
and a new version of vision and extended
the hex across the entire town
agatha concludes that wanda possesses a
legendary form of magic called
chaos magic and dubs her the scarlet
witch
in a mid-credit scene hayward
reactivates the original vision's now
all-white reassembled corpse agatha
attempts to take wanda's chaos magic
from her
the white vision enters west view with
the goal to destroy wanda's created
vision
the two visions fight while agatha
releases the residents of west view from
wanda's control
angry they turn on wanda and demand she
let them go
wanda is overwhelmed and starts to open
the barrier causing wanda's created
vision and the twins
to start disintegrating hayward and
other sword agents
enter before wanda seals the barrier
again monica confronts the fake pietro
who is actually a resident named
ralph boner and releases him from
agatha's spell
she then helps the twins stop sword
using powers she gained when entering
the hex's barrier
while wanda's created vision is able to
restore his memories
into the white vision who then decides
to leave town
wanda tricks agatha casting a spell that
takes away her magic
and wanda fully becomes the scarlet
witch wanda traps agatha in west view
forever
to play the role of agnes wanda decides
to give up her new family
realizing it is the right thing to do
and says goodbye to tommy
billy and vision before collapsing the
barrier
wanda apologizes to monica for any harm
she caused
and leaves westview in a mid-credits
scene monica is informed by a scroll
that a friend of her mother's wants to
meet her monika asks where
and the scroll points to the sky in a
post-credits scene
wanda has gone into hiding to learn
about her powers from the dark hold